Now we've got our UI, but
our UI isn't going to do anything
unless we hook it up to some scripts.
So how do we do that?
Well, we need to add this.
Well, we need to add a few things to our
score script so that it's aware of the UI.
So to do this we'll add
a serialized field for
the TextMeshProUGUI object
which I know is really long but
that is the name of the component.
And that comes from
the TextMesh Pro namespace or
TM Pro for short,
which will then hook up in the editor
to the TextMesh Pro UI
objects that we created.
And then we'll update that string,
every fixed update.
So we already have the score component.
So we can just go into VS Code and
go to score.
And at the top here,
I want to add the namespace TM Pro.
And then we need a serialized
field which I'll put above.
For this property and
this needs to be a object of
type TextMesh Pro UGUI and
that will be called Score Text.
We have these two other methods here
we need to add a fixed update method.
And we could update this ScoreText and
reset score or increment score but
okay, we're just going to be a little
bit lazy and updated every frame.
Or sorry, every fixed update,
I should say.
So every fixed update,
update the score string.
So we'll say score text dot text.
That's how we access the actual
string that is string.
We want to set that tot he score value and
cast that to string.
So we'll call the two string method,
that's on integers.
So now that we'll update
our score provided
that we hook up everything
in the inspector.
But let's actually go back to our
slides before we hook things up in
the inspector because we have several
things that we need to hack up there.
But before we do that, there are several
other updates that we want to
do to the GameManager to update our UI.
So, we have a timer, we have Game Over
Text, we need to update those values from
the GameManager because we're keeping
track of them, we have them in the UI,
we just need to To
connect the two together.
So, let's go to the Game Manager and
I believe they have that
open still in VS Code.
So at the top, we'll create
a serialised field called TextMesh Pro.
You doing and I didn't add
the namespace To have TM Pro, so
we got to do that first and
that will clean up that error.
And then we're going to
call this Game Over Text.
We need another one for the timer.
So we'll create a serialized field for
TextMesh Pro.
You go we call this Timer Text So
down here,
we have this method, update timer.
I'm going to uncomment that because now
it is time to update the Timer Text.
And let's actually switch back to our
slides to see how we're going to do that.
So the update timer method is going
to format that floating point
value of the timer into a more human
readable format with minutes and seconds.
So this is all one line,
it's just updating the timer but
there is a lot of stuff
that's being packed in here.
So, first of all, we're using the format
method on the string class within C-Sharp.
And the first number 0 or
1 inside of this format so
here's the first zero here's
the first one is an index so
that's corresponding to additional
arguments in that method so.
Here's zero as the index, and
here's that zeroeth index, and here's one.
And here is that one index and that's
where our two numbers are going to go for
minutes and seconds.
The colon separates the index,
and the formatting.
And the 0's are leading 0'.
So here's the index 0 and
1 and then we have a colon.
And then the formatting for
those is that we want just one place for
the minutes because we only
have 60 seconds in the game.
And then we have two numbers for
the seconds.
So we're going to have a leading
zero there if it's less than 10.
The second part of this is
using the math functions or
math F which is part of Unity.
And we're using what's
called a floor method.
That's common in many math libraries.
You may have come across
this in JavaScript, and
this is going to format that floating
point value into our minutes in seconds.
So if we divide the timer by 60,
that's going to give us our minutes.
If we take the modulus operator of 60,
that's going to give us our seconds.
Okay, so let's type that out.
We're gonna switch back to Unity.
And we will say update timer.
And I'm going to type out that whole
comment just so we know what's going on.
Here so we've got 0 colon 0 colon inside
of these curly braces, and 1 colon 00.
And we'll say the first number 0 and
1 is the index.
Colon separates index and
the formatting, and
that's referring to the colon
inside of the curly braces.
And then the zero, Or
the zeros, are leading zeros.
So now we need to take
that timertext.text, and
remember that's
the TextMesh Pro UGUI object there.
And if I can find my method again,
there it is.
We need to take that text and
we need to apply string.format to it.
And we need this string here.
So, and
of course this is a string literal.
So So it needs to be in quotes as well.
So we'll say zero colon zero and
then after
the closing curly brace
we'll add another colon,
up up our curly braces and say 1:00.
I know this is confusing I promise this
is probably the most confusing part of
this entire game,
is formatting this timer string.
So next, for the arguments we need to say,
math F.floor I need to
take the timer value and
divide by 60 to get the minutes,
then we say math F.floor.
And we say the timer mod 60,
To get the seconds.
All right.
We'll save them.
There's a few more updates we
need to do to the Game Manager.
So let's get started on those
In the game over method,
we need to update the Game Over Text
based on the final score.
So if the player wins,
we need to say you win.
If the player loses,
we need to say you lose.
If there's a tie, we'll say there's a tie.
And then we also need to concatenate
that Game Over Text to some additional
text that says, press space to restart.
So one other thing to keep in mind is
that that Game Over Text shouldn't
always be shown we need to hide it and
show it at the appropriate time.
So to do that we'll actually just
deactivate the game object that the text
component is attached to so we'll say
Game Over Text.Game Object.Set Active and
pass true into that to activate it and
later on we'll deactivate
that in another spot.
So let's switch back to
our Game Manager and
this is going to happen inside
of the game over method.
And there's a few things that
we need to type out here so
we need to display The end
game text if the game's over.
So we'll just create a string
here called Game Over Text.
That's local.
And then we'll say if the players score,
that score value is greater than
the opponent score that score value.
Well then the Game Over Text
should say something
like you win Well in that if
statement with a semicolon.
Then we'll say else if
the player score that score
value is less than
the opponent's score value.
Well then the Game Over Text should
say something like you lose.
And then finally if neither of those
are true then it must be a tie and
things are equal so
we'll say that it is a tie.
And then, finally,
we need to take that string And
we need to assign it to Game Over Text
.txt again remember the Game Over Text
is a TextMesh Pro UGUI object that we
will assign in the inspector soon.
And we need to apply that Game Over Text,
but
we don't wanna just say you win, you lose.
There's a tie, we wanna say that and
we also wanna say to press this
space bar to restart, and we want
a little bit of formatting in there.
We don't want that to just be
right up against this text,
so we'll create two new lines,
and then we can say Press Space,
To restart, And so
that will be our gameovertext.
There's one more thing we need to do here.
If you'll recall, we need to actually
show this because at this point,
the gameovertext will be disabled.
We're gonna disable it soon.
But right now,
we need to enable it because we want to
show this text that we just wrote out.
So show the Game Over Text
once it has been set and we'll
say gameOverText.gameObject.setActive
it's true.
And that will activate the game object.
So let's save that.
And let's do one more
update to the Game Manager.
And that is under the RestartGame.
So when the game restarts,
we want to hide that text.
So let's switch back,
go down to the restart method.
So in Game Manager Restart Game,
we want to hide the end In
the game text will say the same
thing gameovertext.game
object.setactive and
instead of true will say false.
And that will hide the game object and
it won't be visible.
So, we'll save that.
And now we have a couple of things
that we need to hook up in Unity
that we have neglected
up until this point.
So we have all of our bits of UI here,
but I'm going to go to
the Game Manager because if you'll
recall in the Game Manager,
we created those TextMesh Pro UGUI slots,
we need to populate them.
We created the player score
slots that we never populated.
So we need to drag that stuff over.
So the Game Over Text will drag there,
will drag the Timer Text there,
we can drag just
the Player Game Object to
one of these slots and
it's looking for a score component.
So it will automatically grab
the score component and then for
opponent we need to do the same thing
now on the player and the opponent.
There's a few things we
need to hook up as well.
We have this UI here, but
we never filled in this value.
So we need to for the player,
get the player score and
make sure that gets updated.
And then for the opponent So,
we need to grab the opponent score.
Make sure that gets updated.
So now we'll save the scene.
And if we hit play,
if everything went well,
we should see a timer that starts
with a minute on the clock.
Okay, we should be able to hit
space to start the game and
this text should disappear.
The timer should start running.
It is not we'll investigate that.
But it does look like the scoring
is happening successfullly.
So that's good, But
let's see why that timer
might not be updating.
So we've got Timer Text in the Game
Manager And where does this get updated?
Update timer, Okay,
so we called it in start,
but, I missed a step.
In fixed update we never
actually update the timer.
So we'll add the update timer method to
fixed update because we need to update
that every fixed update.
And if I switch back to Unity.
And then hit Play,
Now the Timer Text should update.